---
title: "Acknowledgements"
order: 502
layout: page

---

*The Imitation Game* exhibition and publication were produced during a time of great constraint and disruption to our usual modes of communication and production. We are grateful to all of our collaborators and colleagues who overcame those challenges and enthusiastically supported the project over the past three years. 
This exhibition was conceived several years ago with the wholehearted support of the Vancouver Art Gallery’s Interim Director Daina Augaitis and Interim Chief Curator Diana Freundl. Anthony Kiendl, the Gallery’s Executive Director & CEO, maintained that decisive support despite the financial strain imposed by the global pandemic. Their collective commitment to an exhibition program that actively embraces visual culture made this project possible. 
From the earliest stages of the project, we benefited from the expertise of a small group of advisors who generously shared their insights, research and community access; they were Andrew Glassner, WETA; Aaron Hertzmann, Adobe Research; and Terrence Masson, School of Visual Arts New York. They were later joined by Ben Shneiderman, University of Maryland & University of British Columbia; Henry LaBounta; Wilkins Chung, Manifold.xyz; Jaspreet Oberoi, 1QBit Inc.; David Salesin, Google Research; and Adam Finkelstein, Princeton University. 
Mary Chapman is the academic director of the Public Humanities Hub at the University of British Columbia and through that program she opened the door to a wealth of AI-related research at UBC. Those introductions were important to key components of the exhibition and the public programs. 
We worked closely with the faculty and graduate students at Vancouver’s Centre for Digital Media (CDM) to realize three key components of the exhibition. We thank faculty members Larry Bafia and Jason Elliott for leading the graduate students throughout the two-year process, and Dennis Chenard, who was responsible for strategic partnerships. We worked with three outstanding teams of graduate students to design, program and produce the interactive introduction to the exhibition, an interactive installation on emotion recognition in AI, and *Creepers*, an interactive installation that visualizes visitor tracking and preference. Those excellent students were: (Introduction Wall team) Allyson Zhong, Luisa Martínez Riaño, Sooq Won, Farbod Tabaei, Pieteke MacMahon and Cindy Shi; (Emotion Recognition team) Valentina Forte-Hernandez, Courtney Clarkson, Julia Read and Vlad Ryzhov; (*Creepers* team) Mary Wilson, Shruti Sharma, Yuri Wu, Min Kyu Choi and Cindy Shi. Aashay Mehta, Cindy Shi and Vlad Ryzhov supported the development of exhibition content through programming, assets management and content production. Their continued commitment to the project was greatly appreciated. 
Thanks also go to Princeton University graduate student Isabella Pu and advisor Adam Finkelstein, Professor of Computer Science, Princeton University, who worked with Glenn Entis to design, program and animate their marvellous video primer on the workings of generative adversarial networks. 
We are grateful to Michael Lis of Goodweather Studio who has been a long-time and highly valued collaborator in all areas of exhibition design. Michael worked closely with the curators and Gallery staff on the preparations, graphics and audiovisual departments to accommodate the complex needs of the exhibition and to provide a rich visual and material environment for the many images, objects, events and texts that constitute *The Imitation Game*. 
This ambitious and complex exhibition and its publication would not have been possible without the intelligence and ingenuity of Gallery staff. We extend our appreciation to curatorial staff, Elaire Maund, Zoë Chan and Julie Martin for their strategic contributions. The exhibition also benefitted enormously from the efforts of our registrars, Jenny Wilson and Amber McBride, who navigated challenging shipping arrangements and provided oversight to the lengthy installation process. Jim Stamper led the preparation team that include Steve Wood, Glen Flanderka, Dwight Koss, Michael Trevillion, Ken Labun and Brandon Cotter. Their attention to detail and measured pace delivered an outstanding framework for the exhibition. 
Francis Paris led the Audio-Visual team that played such a critical role in the exhibition’s success. Detailed planning began more than a year in advance of the opening to ensure adequate time to prepare for the massive influx of equipment needed to present the exhibition. Assets management, supply chain challenges and the vagaries of new media and technologies (produced anywhere from the 1940s to 2020s) were scrutinized and resolved during a period of great upheaval and unpredictability. Yota Kobayashi shared his rich knowledge of programming and process with the CDM teams to ensure exhibition-ready installations, and his adept inventions for responsive sound control in the exhibition brought a sonic balance to the exhibition as a whole. Scarlet Hildebrand, Leif Hall, Asa Mori, George Rahl and Eileen Kage deftly handled all the complications of AV installation and continue the ongoing maintenance of the many, many component parts. The Graphics team lead by Susan Perrigo brought order and beauty to the heaps of text and image that crowded the exhibition’s walls. Balancing staff and supply shortages, the team—including Gabriella Fiorentino, Yun Lam Li and Brent Haddow—applied their outstanding skills to the challenge.
Wade Thomas agreed to a timely and much appreciated return to the Gallery to apply his unique skills to the design and implementation of several key, media-based projects for the exhibition. Working closely with artists Scott Eaton and Sougwen Chung, Wade ensured that their work was presented in the best possible way. A consummate perfectionist and savvy realist, Wade saw every challenge as a unique opportunity to apply his rigour and experience.
This exhibition publication provided an opportunity to experiment with the rapidly evolving and interdisciplinary world of digital publishing. It was achieved in a close collaboration between the Vancouver Art Gallery and Goodweather Studio. We are grateful to Stephanie Rebick, the Gallery’s Director of Publishing and Content Strategy, and to Michael Lis for their willingness to explore new publishing models—in this case a digital exhibition handbook and a permanent digital catalogue of the exhibition—and to bring the publication to life. Aashay Mehta contributed highly valued support and perceptive troubleshooting skills to both the handbook and permanent publication. Ian Lefebvre and Jessica Jacobson produced the comprehensive and visually engaging documentation of the exhibition’s various component parts. We are grateful for their commitment to the project and its broader dissemination. Stephanie Rebick not only provided oversight and guidance on the publication project, but also generously contributed to the necessary work of proofreading, troubleshooting and problem-solving.
The Imitation Game: Visual Culture in the Age of Artificial Intelligence would not have been possible without the financial support of Jane Irwin and Ross Hill, The Poseley Family, and Rick Erickson and Donna Partridge. Nicola Wealth was a supporting sponsor and the AI Youth Programs Sponsor was The Dr. Michael Smith Science Fair Endowment. Additional support was received from The S.M. Blair Family Foundation and Traction on Demand. The Richardson Family, our Visionary Partner for Scholarship and Publications, provided the support necessary to realize our digital publishing ambitions. 
Finally, we thank the individual, institutional and corporate lenders to the exhibition who shared their unique insights, creativity and experience, and the many artists, designers, architects, programmers and cultural producers who created the extraordinary art and ideas that formed *The Imitation Game*. 


Bruce Grenville and Glenn Entis
Co-curators
