---
label: 9
title: Bina48
subtitle:
layout: entry
order: 210
presentation: side-by-side
object:
 - id: 9 
---

Bina48 is a social robot, conceived as part of a project that began in 2007 and continues today. It was developed and built by the Terasem Movement Foundation (TMF) in collaboration with Hanson Robotics---an "AI and robotics company dedicated to creating socially intelligent machines that enrich the quality of our lives." The TMF's work is defined by two hypotheses and one supposition:

   1. A conscious analog of a person may be created by combining sufficiently detailed data about the person (a "mindfile") using future consciousness software ("mindware"), and

   2. that such a conscious analog can be downloaded into a biological or nanotechnological body to provide life experiences comparable to those of a typically birthed human.

If even the first part of the two Terasem Hypotheses is shown to be true, the conscious analogs will be independent persons with rights and obligations dependent upon their capabilities. The TMF defines this event as Transferred Consciousness (TC).

Produced in 2010, Bina48 is modelled on the memories, feelings, values and beliefs of a specific person---Bina Aspen Rothblatt, the partner of the TMF co-founder Martine Rothblatt. Aspen Rothblatt uploaded her "mindfile" to create this "conscious analog." Bina48 is described as a university student and a civil rights activist, much like her human counterpart, and has mannerisms and facial features that resemble Rothblatt's. Bina48 has attracted the attention of a wide range of critics and supporters who use the humanoid robot to enact their own versions of Alan Turing's "Imitation Game."

{% accordion ' ## Bina48 Meets Bina Rothblatt' %}

Bina48 is a complex machine boasting a processing speed of 48 exaflops and 48 exabytes of memory. Programmed for reinforcement learning, deep learning and neural networks, and loaded with facial, voice and emotion recognition hardware and software, Bina48 elicits equally complex responses from those she interacts with. She is purposefully gendered, racialised, educated and embodied to match her model and "mindfile," Bina Rothblatt: an African-American cis woman, married to a transgender woman, and committed to the artificial preservation of human consciousness; ethical and equitable science; and a very different future world.

This level of complexity and nuance is usually missing in public representations of artificial intelligence, and in this way Bina48 acts as an important reminder of the racial, gender and sociocultural biases that underly much of the thinking in this field.

{% endaccordion %}

{% accordion ' ## Stephanie Dinkins' %}

Stephanie Dinkins is a transdisciplinary artist whose conversations with Bina48 began in 2014 and continue to this day. Bringing together their experiences of family, racism, faith, civil rights, consciousness, loneliness, knowledge and age, their conversations encourage listeners to think differently about human-robot interaction. Drawing on her relationship with Bina48, Dinkins sees the opportunity to imagine and construct a future that "convincingly represents the rich diversity of stories, cultures, and physicalities of the human family."

{% endaccordion %}

{% accordion ' ## Amy Kurzweil' %}

Amy Kurzweil is a cartoonist and writer whose work addresses representations of the future, evolving technologies and artificial intelligence. Her interview with Bina48---which she recounts in comic strip format---offers thoughtful insight into the multifaceted nature of Bina48's intelligence, and the space that she occupies between human and non-human.

{% endaccordion %}
